# Before You Read

* Remind yourself this is only a guide for the [Computer Science, B.Sc., Major](https://umanitoba-ca-preview.courseleaf.com/undergraduate-studies/science/computer-science/computer-science-bsc-major/) and [Computer Science, B.C.Sc., Honours](https://umanitoba-ca-preview.courseleaf.com/undergraduate-studies/science/computer-science/computer-science-bcsc-honours/) programs at the [University of Manitoba](https://umanitoba.ca).
  * I can probably give good takes on other (CS-related) programs' degree planning if you ask me. I definitely am not giving good takes on anything outside the University of Manitoba.
* Read over the details of **both** programs above. Understand at minimum the *requirements for joining the program*, *graduation requirements*, and full *degree requirements* (in terms of courses required) and their possible substitutions.
* If you are currently a student and the website is not down, [run an audit of your target degree on UM Achieve](https://umachieve.umanitoba.ca/), then understand the content of the audit.
* If you are an incoming or first-year student, ***the most important thing you will need to remember is course registration time in July is dictated by your GPA after you exceed 24 credit hours. Having a low GPA can and will jeopardize your course planning especially in later years.***
* If you are an incoming or first-year student, read the [First Year Planning Guide](https://issuu.com/firstyearcentre/docs/fypg?fr=sZGJmMjYxMDM4MzM) pages 1-15, 112-113, 166-185, and 187-189. Take notes, there is a lot it covers, but you will likely be doing yourself a disservice not being aware of the information it gives you.
* If you are an incoming or first-year student, understand how to [register for courses at all](https://umanitoba.ca/registrar/registration); though the FYPG should be more than sufficient in explaining this.
* If you are an incoming or first-year student, understand the distinction between being or not being in the *Faculty of Science* and/or University 1 (or any other faculty) with *having declared* a program in *Computer Science*.
  * The FYPG should have given you more than enough information, but TL;DR you apply to be in a certain faculty, but you are only considered a CS student after declaring your program. If you do not, **you do not get priority registration for second-year and above COMP courses, which is effectively equivalent to being unable to take those courses**.
* If you are an incoming or first-year student, understand that when you meet the requirements for joining the program, you **must** declare your program **as early as possible** (and *only* after receiving all your grades) via [the following form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=C92AT4wzTE6KFJBEaWL3uL9CWu4d-vZJvVT7Ph011Z5UQVNaRDkzT00wVjhVVUJRNTNBUUlETzRLNiQlQCN0PWcu), found via selecting "I am currently a student at UM" -> "Undergraduate student" -> "..." -> "Declaring my program (honours, major, general, minor)" on the [Science Advising page](https://umanitoba.ca/science/student-experience/academic-advising).
* Reassure yourself that Computer Science is quite a difficult field to pursue, and if you do not have a genuine enthusiasm for either problem solving, collaboration, or technology, this degree is not for you. If you want to do it *just* for the money, **you will not make it compared to the thousand of students who actually do it out of passion**.
* Reassure yourself that even if you do have genuine passion, some days things will feel all difficult and horrible and you may want to quit, and your emotions and any ensuing decisions are valid.
